---
layout: post
title: New Heating Model
use_math: true
category: journal
---

# New Heating Model

[Last week](https://ronak-n-desai.github.io/osunotebook/22sum7/) I read the Hockney papers to understand where the heating time formulas come from which are used by Arber for his formula. I realized that there is no particular reason why $(\lambda_D / \Delta x)$ has to be squared, so we should allow the possibility that it may not be squared. Maybe, this relationship breaks down when the simulation gets sufficiently under-resolved. Regardless, I decided to run some simulations that would allow me to explore how effective such a model to be. Let us assume, from the Arber Paper, that the heating time is only dependent on the dimensionless resolution and the inverse of the plasma frequency.

\begin{equation} \tau_H \sim \frac{n_{ppc}}{\omega_{pe}} ( \lambda_D / \Delta x)^\alpha \end{equation}

The two other dimensionless parameters are $\omega_{pe} \Delta t$ and $v_{th} \Delta t / \Delta x$ which we are going to ignore for now, but if necessary could be included in a more advanced model. From my previous sims, I am convinced that the dependence on $n_{ppc}$ is correct, so I will be leaving that as a constant. This would correspond to an Arber-like formula of 

\begin{equation}
\frac{dT_{eV}}{dt_{ps}} = C_H T_{0,eV}^{1 - \alpha/2} \Delta x_{nm}^\alpha n_{23}^{(\alpha + 1)/2}
\end{equation}

where for a spline shape function, $C_H = \alpha_{H} / n_{ppc} = 2/25 = 0.08$. Here, I assumed that $n_{ppc}$ = 25 which is what I used for the sims in the next section. I want to test this model for a variety of different resolutions. 

# Simulation Setup
From my previous sims, it seems like the resolution is the most important factor in determining how much heating there is. As a result, I decided to fix the resolution at certain values and adjust $\Delta x$ , $n_{23}$ and $T_0$ in such a way to keep the resolution the same. For example, using $T_0 = 100$ eV, $n_{23} = 1$, $\Delta x = 3 $ nm (and $n_{ppc} = 25$ for all the sims), I did the following 13 simulations:

$({T_0, n_{23}, \Delta x})$
$({4 T_0, 4 n_{23}, \Delta x})$
$({9 T_0, 9 n_{23}, \Delta x})$
$({\frac{1}{4} T_0, \frac{1}{4} n_{23}, \Delta x})$
$({\frac{1}{9} T_0, \frac{1}{9} n_{23}, \Delta x})$
$({4 T_0, n_{23}, 2 \Delta x})$
$({9 T_0, n_{23}, 3 \Delta x})$
$({\frac{1}{4} T_0, n_{23}, \frac{1}{2} \Delta x})$
$({\frac{1}{9} T_0, n_{23}, \frac{1}{3} \Delta x})$
$({T_0, 4 n_{23}, \frac{1}{2} \Delta x})$
$({T_0, 9 n_{23}, \frac{1}{3} \Delta x})$
$({T_0, \frac{1}{4} n_{23}, 2 \Delta x})$
$({T_0, \frac{1}{9} n_{23}, 3 \Delta x})$

this corresponded to a resolution of $0.0783$. I repeated this process, but just varied $\Delta x$ from $\Delta x = {1/4, 1/2, 1, 3, 6, 9, 12}$ nm. In setting up the simulations this way, I can make several assessment of the data in order to confirm that an $\alpha$ model is correct. 

also, I did all the sims for 1 ps. As a result, for shorthand, I will represent $\frac{dT}{dt} \rightarrow \Delta T$ which is assumed to be the change in temperature in electron volts in 1 ps. 

## Assume $\Delta x$ is constant

If we assume $\Delta x$ is constant, if we are at a constant resolution and increase the initial temperature by some factor $\beta$, we will get 

$T_0 \rightarrow \beta T_0$ and $n \rightarrow \beta n$. 



# Things to Do
- Item 1
- Item 2
