---
layout: post
title: Summer Updates
use_math: true
category: journal
---
# Conference and UCSD Summer School
In June, I went to my first physics conference: LaserNetUS. I got to present my [poster](https://ronak-n-desai.github.io/images/LaserNet23_Poster.pdf) on the Fuchs ML work I have been doing. I got to see some important people in the field including Blagoje Djordevic and Scott Wilks and even got to meet Brendan Loughran from the [Bayesian Optimization Paper](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/high-power-laser-science-and-engineering/article/automated-control-and-optimization-of-laserdriven-ion-acceleration/067E7D12CC7461E51E51B426BC7BDC40). 

On another note, the conference room was *FREEZING* and I was shivering the whole time. I thought it was really cool how they signaled people to walk back inside using this type of soothing chime, rather than some large announcement.

During the last two weeks of July, I attended the High Energy Density Science Summer School at the University of California at San Diego! There were lots of talks by well-known researchers in the field. I particularly liked the talk from [Burkhard Militzer](http://militzer.berkeley.edu/) on theoretical aspects in planetary science. He talked about how the interior of Jupiter is still under contention and that there might be some liquid component of metallic hydrogen. Additionally, he talked about how the rings of saturn may have been formed from tearing apart one of its moons: which would change perspectives on just how old Saturn's rings are.

There were also some good talks on ICF and we even got to visit General Atomics and view their tokamak and target fabrication facility! Additionally, there was a machine learning workshop led by Pat Knapp and Raspberry Simpson. I have pdfs of all the talks, so that will all be useful as a resource to me in the future.

# Fuchs ML Work Paper
We ended up finishing up the work on the Fuchs Model Machine Learning Paper and uploaded it to [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16036)! We made minor modifications since [last post](https://ronak-n-desai.github.io/23sum2/) because I forgot to properly re-instantiate the Neural Network model each time (whoops) and I capped the number of GP iterations to 50 to avoid numerical issues. I plan to write up a more formal post on this later. 

# Ricky's Energy Conservation Paper
Last year, [I did a bunch of work](https://ronak-n-desai.github.io/22aut6/) on energy conservation in PIC sims. I found out that the Arber et. al. paper empirical fit to the amount of heating (derived from Hockney) didn't do a great job across different resolutions (e.g. debye length to cell size ratio). This is further complicated when the ion species aren't just protons and can have multiple levels of ionization. To summarize, the Arber formula is 

\begin{equation}
  \frac{dT_{eV}}{dt_{ps}} = \alpha_H \frac{n_{23}^{3/2} \Delta x_{nm}^2}{n_{ppc}} 
\end{equation}

which shows an inverse relationship with the number of particles per cell. However, as the plasma heats up, ionization can occur which will shed more electrons into the system. If the number of ion particles per cell is too small, the electron macroparticles shed by the ions will be
# Things to Do
- 
