---
layout: post
title: Comparing Basic Titan Sims, Fuchs Paper Edits
use_math: true
category: journal
---

This post covers work from 09/03-09/13

## Fuchs Paper Edits 


## Titan Sims

### Batch Script and Interactive Sessions

I finished running the single pulse simulation up to 3ps which ran without any exploding which is nice. Since the files take a while to analyze using the login node in VSCode, I decided to start doing the EPOCH analysis using an interactive session on Jupyter. I first realized that the default directory OSC places us in is the `$HOME` directory which is not ideal to look at the project or scratch directory where all the simulations are. Johnathon's solution was to manually allocate resources using `salloc --nodes=1 --ntasks-per-node=4 --time=1:00:00 --account=PAS1066`. Alternatively, we can use `salloc -N 1 -n 4 -t 1:00:00 -A PAS1066` as a shorthand. These are the same SLURM commands you would use in a batch script. You would also need `--xll` as an argument to `salloc` to enable XLL forwarding for the interactive session. OSC recommmends submitting jobs for 1 hour or less because they can run on nodes reserved for debugging. Once the nodes are allocated, can check with `squeue` to get the JOBID and see the node that is allocated and then use `ssh <node##>` to log into the node that was allocated. 

My solution was to simply create a symbolic link to the project and scratch directories in the home directory. To do this (for example for the project directory), I would type (in the home directory): 

`ln -s /fs/project/PAS1066/ronakndesai project`

which creates the directory `project` that corresponds to my project directory.

### First Success of Single/Double Pulse Simulations




