---
layout: post
title: Miscellaneous Tips
use_math: true
category: docs
comments: true
---
This is a page for miscellaneous topics that do not belong in any of the other sections

# Setting up SSH for Passwordless Authentication
When using VSCode to remote log in to OSC, it kept prompting for my password and never saved it between sessions. To get around this, we need to set up an SSH public/private key pair. 

1. Navigate to `~/.ssh` on your personal computer and type in
   
   ```bash
   ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
   ```
   
   to generate a public/private key pair. The public key is stored in the file with file extension *.pub* which is what needs to get transferred to OSC and the private key (does not have a file extension) stays on your personal computer. You can decline to set a passphrase for this key and use the default name it suggests.

3. The next steps depend on if you have MAC/LINUX or WINDOWS on your personal computer.

* If MAC/LINUX: type in

  ```bash
  ssh-copy-id username@domain
  ```

  For example, my username/domain on OSC would be `ronakndesai@pitzer.osc.edu`.
* If WINDOWS: the copy-id command may not be available, so we will need to manually transfer the public key. Open up the public key file (something like id_rsa.pub) and there should be a lot of text on just one line starting with ssh-rsa. Copy this entire line and paste it into the file called `authorized_keys` in the `~/.ssh` folder on the remote server. If this has never been done before, you may need to manually create a file called `authorized_keys` here.
* An easy way to transfer the key without manually copy/pasting would be to first copy the public key file `id_rsa.pub` to the `~/.ssh` directory on the remote server. Then, (in the `~/.ssh` directory) type `cat id_rsa.pub >> authorized_keys`. After doing this, make sure there is no blank line in the `authorized_keys` file between two adjacent keys. IMPORTANT: make sure there are TWO `>` characters so that we are appending the key to the end of the file instead of overwriting all the contents.

# Conda Environments

To create an environment type 

```bash
conda create --name env-name
```

To remove an environment type

```bash
conda remove -n env-name --all
```

# Installing Packages on an offline computer

First, on a computer with internet access, create a directory to store the packages, cd into it, and type in the download pip command

```bash
mkdir offline-packages
cd offline-packages
pip download <packagename>
```

Then, you need to transfer the files to the offline computer, enter that directory, and type in the following command 

```bash
pip install --no-index --find-links . <package-name>
```

# Using sphinx to create python documentation. 

[Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) is a tool to automatically generate documentation from python doc strings. First, you should install sphinx using conda or pip (e.g. `conda install sphinx`). Some other useful packages to download would be 
- `sphinx_rtd_theme` to support *Read the Docs* style documentation

1. You should create a directory called `docs` and cd to it. Then, run `sphinx-quickstart` and answer the prompts to set everything up. I chose to keep the build and source in the same directory.
2. Make the following changes to conf.py
   1.  `import os`, `import sys`, and `sys.path.insert(0, os.path.abspath('../'))` should be three lines added to the top of the file where the specified path is the root directory of the package. This may not be necessary depending on how the project is set up.
   2.  Place `sphinx.ext.autodoc` in the extensions list (a built in sphinx tool to automatically generate documentation).
   3.  Change the theme by specifying `html_theme = 'sphinx_rtd_theme'`. There are [many other themes](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/theming.html) one can choose, but the read the docs theme seems to be popular with many people.
3. Then, in the `docs` directory, create `.rst` files for each of the python classes that you want to document. Here's an example using `DataManager.rst`

```
DataManager module
==================

.. automodule:: DataManager
    :members:
```
4. For each `.rst` file you create, you need to specify its name (without the `.rst` extension) under the `:caption: Contents:` section of `index.rst`.

```
...
:caption: Contents:

DataManager
Class2
Class3
```
5. Create documentation in the specified classes. In VSCode, I used the `autoDocstring` extension (go into the extension settings and change the format to `sphinx`) to help generate documentation. The way this extension works is that you type in three double quotes immediately after a class or function declaration and clicking enter will generate documentation in the `sphinx` format. Generally, the documentation consists of a summary, param/type pairs, and return types. Here is an example of what this documentation looks like for one of my defined functions `remove_outliers`:
```
 def remove_outliers(df, column, q1_mult = 1.0, q3_mult = 1.0):
     """Static Method to remove outliers from a dataframe based on a specified column

     :param df: dataframe to remove outliers from
     :type df: `pd.DataFrame`
     :param column: column to remove outliers from
     :type column: string
     :param q1_mult: minimum value included below q1 in units of IQR, defaults to 1.0
     :type q1_mult: float, optional
     :param q3_mult: maximum value included above q3 in units of IQR, defaults to 1.0
     :type q3_mult: float, optional
     :return: dataframe with outliers removed
     :rtype: `pd.DataFrame`
     """
```
6. Finally, type in `make html` (if you want to generate html documentation) in the `docs` directory to build the documentation. Sphinx supports building documentation in pdfs, epubs, etc. so you can experiment with different options if desired. You can double click `index.html` to open the documentation in a web browser and this file is located in `docs/_build/html`. 
